# TDD -- Test-driven development

## Mocha

While there are several frameworks for running tests in Node.js and the browser,
Mocha seems to be the most popular. Mocha can work in the browser, but it
focuses on Node.js.

Mocha provides functions like `describe` for grouping your tests
and `it` for running your tests. However, Mocha does not provide
any assertions. Assertions are functions that throw `Error`s given some
conditions.

```js
assert.equal('foo', 'foo') // => Does nothing
assert.equal('foo', 'bar') // => throws "AssertionError: 'foo' == 'bar'"
```

The implementation is approximately:

```js
assert.equal = (a, b) => {
    if (a != b) {
        throw new AssertionError(`${a} == ${b}`)
    }
}
```

Node.js includes some [basic assertions](https://nodejs.org/api/assert.html),
including the `assert.equal` above, but it is limited in its scope. The most
popular assertion library is Chai.

## Chai

Chai has three "flavors" of assertions. Assert is similar to Node.js's built in
assert and is considered a TDD style. Expect and Should are considered
[BDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development)
styles and read more like English. All flavors include the the same
functionality, but we will focus on using the `assert`s.

## Red Green Refactor

<!-- TODO: Why fail first? -->

## Types of tests

<!-- TODO: Integration vs Unit tests -->

## Adding tests to working code

Make sure your tests fail.

## Requirements

Using the app we built for the last exercise, we are going to add tests for all
of the exported functions.

Create a `\test` folder and add a test file for the math, parseargs, and dice
modules. Then add at least one unit test for every exported property. Next
create a cli test file for integration tests.

This is not technically TDD as we aren't testing first, so make sure you create
a failing test before making it pass.

[Assertion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assertion_(software_development))
[Mocha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mocha_(JavaScript_framework))
[Framework comparison](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_unit_testing_frameworks#JavaScript)
